Tokens

Token = A program is divided into small units called tokens.

Types of Tokens (5):

Identifiers – Names of variables, functions, classes, etc.
Operators – +, -, *, /, <, >, ==, and, or, not, etc.
Literals – Fixed values such as 10, 3.14, "Hello", True.
Keywords – Predefined reserved words like if, for, while, def, class.
Punctuators (Separators) – Symbols like ( ) [ ] { } : , ; .

Statements

A statement is an instruction that the Python interpreter executes.

Comments

Comments are used to explain the code.

Single-line comment:
# This is a comment
Multi-line comment:
'''
This is a
multi-line comment.
'''
 
identifiers

Rules for identifiers:

1.Can contain uppercase letters (A–Z), lowercase letters (a–z), digits (0–9), and underscore (_).
2.Cannot start with a digit.
3.Cannot contain special characters like @, $, %, #, etc. (except _).
4.Keywords cannot be used as identifiers.
5.Python is case-sensitive (age, Age, and AGE are different).

python keywords

False	Represents the Boolean false value.
True  	Represents the Boolean true value.
None 	Represents the absence of a value.
and  	Returns True if both conditions are true.
or	        Returns True if at least one condition is true.
not   	Reverses the Boolean value.
if	        Executes code when a condition is true.
elif   	Checks another condition if the previous one is false.
else 	Executes code when all previous conditions are false.
for 	Repeats a block of code over a sequence.
while	Repeats a block of code while a condition is true.
break	Exits the nearest loop immediately.
continue	Skips the current iteration and continues the loop.
pass	Does nothing; acts as a placeholder.
def	        Defines a function.
return	Returns a value from a function.
lambda	Creates an anonymous (nameless) function.
class	Defines a class.
try	        Starts exception handling.
except	Handles an exception.
finally	Executes code whether an exception occurs or not.
raise	Raises an exception manually.
assert	Checks a condition and raises an error if false.
import	Imports a module.
from	Imports specific objects from a module.
as   	Gives an alias to a module or object.
with	Simplifies resource management (e.g., files).
in  	Checks membership or is used in loops.
is	        Checks whether two objects are the same object.
global	Declares a global variable inside a function.
nonlocal	Refers to a variable in the enclosing function.
del 	Deletes an object or variable.
yield	Returns a value from a generator and pauses execution.
async	Defines an asynchronous function or block.
await	Waits for an asynchronous operation to finish.
